README.md, before:

# alertmanager-rock

[![Build ROCK](https://github.com/canonical/alertmanager-rock/actions/workflows/build-rock.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/canonical/alertmanager-rock/actions/workflows/build-rock.yaml)

Build an alertmanager image using
[rockcraft](https://github.com/canonical/rockcraft), maintaining the same file
hierarchy as the
[`prometheus/alertmanager`](https://github.com/prometheus/alertmanager/blob/main/Dockerfile)
image.

## Usage
```shell
rockcraft pack -v
```

## Manual verification
```shell
tar tf alertmanager_0.24.0_amd64.rock
tar -O -xf alertmanager_0.24.0_amd64.rock oci-layout

skopeo --insecure-policy copy oci-archive:alertmanager_0.24.0_amd64.rock docker-daemon:alertmanager:0.24.0
dive alertmanager:0.24.0

docker run --rm -d -p 9093:9093 alertmanager:0.24.0
curl localhost:9093/api/v1/alerts
```

## Build automation
This repo has workflows in place to:
- update `rockcraft.yaml` when new versions of alertmanager are published;
- publish a new rock on every merge.

Commit message:

Add the Alertmanager ROCK to OCI Factory (#12)
* prepare repo for oci-factory

* add workflow to open PRs to oci-factory as a test

* build rock 0.24 to trigger new CI on 0.25

* enable manual action for release to oci-factory as a test

* return to build 0.25

* add badge for future oci-releases

* use workflow from main

* fix alertmanager link in README

README.md, after:

# alertmanager-rock

[![Open a PR to OCI Factory](https://github.com/canonical/alertmanager-rock/actions/workflows/rock-release-oci-factory.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/canonical/alertmanager-rock/actions/workflows/rock-release-oci-factory.yaml)
[![Publish to GHCR:dev](https://github.com/canonical/alertmanager-rock/actions/workflows/rock-release-dev.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/canonical/alertmanager-rock/actions/workflows/rock-release-dev.yaml)
[![Update ROCK](https://github.com/canonical/alertmanager-rock/actions/workflows/rock-update.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/canonical/alertmanager-rock/actions/workflows/rock-update.yaml)

[ROCKs](https://canonical-rockcraft.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/) for [Alertmanager](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/latest/alertmanager/).  
This repository holds all the necessary files to build ROCKs for the upstream versions we support. The Alertmanager ROCK is used by the [alertmanager-k8s-operator](https://github.com/canonical/alertmanager-k8s-operator) charm.

The ROCKs on this repository are built with [OCI Factory](https://github.com/canonical/oci-factory/), which also takes care of periodically rebuilding the images.

Automation takes care of:
* validating PRs, by simply trying to build the ROCK;
* pulling upstream releases, creating a PR with the necessary files to be manually reviewed;
* releasing to GHCR at [ghcr.io/canonical/alertmanager:dev](https://ghcr.io/canonical/alertmanager:dev), when merging to main, for development purposes.
